All right, let's talk about some mistakes
to try and avoid when giving feedback.
I think it's always good to think about
the mistakes that I've absolutely made.
But yeah,
what are things to kind of avoid,
especially just specifically
around the critical feedback?
I think about it, is don't pile
on a ton of feedback all at once.
You may need to see
a lot of changes happen.
But piling on a ton of
things that need to change,
I don't think people
are gonna be as successful.
And maybe it is that there's too many
things for this person to change and
address to meet your expectations.
And maybe that is where you
might have to let someone go, or
it's not the right fit for the team, maybe
they are a better fit in another team.
It might be that there's
just too many things,
but piling on a bunch of
feedback is really difficult.
It gets muddy,
they only hear certain things, or
also just becomes hard
to address them all.
Avoid using harsh or hurtful language.
You can be direct without being harsh.
Direct is important,
you want it to be clear,
concise, but you don't wanna be hurtful.
Avoid making the feedback personal.
It's more about the work or the outcomes.
It's not like, you suck at this.
It's like, okay, well,
that's kinda not helpful.
But hey, I'm seeing that you're
not able to deliver this or
maybe you don't have the depth in this.
It's a little bit
different in that scenario.
And avoid being vague with
the feedback there, again, clear,
concise, make that clear.
I honestly, when I'm having
to have these conversations,
I sit back and think about it before
going into those conversations.
Sometimes I'll write it down.
I don't read it as a script, but I find
it helps to just write it out and think
about like, how is this message gonna be
interpreted, how can it be very clear?
Because ultimately,
having these really hard conversations,
the best outcome can happen is
that you set the expectations and
then the two of you can
work on those together.
And ultimately, I've been there,
where it's like, it got better,
things are working.
And that's where I wanna be as a leader,
is, how can I get someone to where I need
to see them, get you, and things are good?
Don't wait to get feedback.
I mentioned that, yeah,
six months ago, you did this.
.Don't wait.
Sometimes you may not see
it as a problem right away.
I've found sometimes where I'm giving
a little bit more of the growth feedback,
where I'm like, yeah,
this could be better.
You could be a little bit better
about prioritizing your work or
thinking about timelines,
doing a little bit better on estimates.
But over time,
it might start to become like, wow,
you're just not meeting
expectations on that.
And so that one's a little
muddy where it's like, yeah,
I've given a little bit of feedback, but
it might not be the critical side, and
that's okay, it's like, but you're
still giving in-the-moment feedback.